README.md, before:

# Sandboxia2D
![Logo](./assets/logo.png)

## Stable branch

Sandboxia is a sandbox game written in C++ using OpenGL. It is designed to be a simple sandbox game that is easy to run on older machines. The game is still in development. Sandboxia2D comes with a simple API for mods to add new features to the game. For deeper modding, modify the source code directly. Windows support is still experimental.

## Features
- Bugs may be present
- 2D World
- OpenGL 3.0
- VSYNC
- World saving/loading
- Debug mode
- Console
- Support for mods!

# Supported platforms
- Linux: x86_64, aarch64
- Windows: x86_64 (experimental)

## How to play

- W, A, S, D to move
- Left mouse button to destroy blocks
- Right mouse button to place blocks
- T to open console

## Pre-requisites
### Linux
- `mesa-common-dev` (for OpenGL)
- `cmake`
- `g++`

## Building

### Linux
- Building instructions:
    1. Run `mkdir build`  
    2. Run `cmake -B build` This will generate the Makefile
    3. Run `cmake --build build -j(number of threads)` to build the game.
- Run `./build/Sandboxia` to play the game.
### Windows
- MSYS2 is strongly recommended for Windows users.
    1. Install MSYS2
    2. Run `pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-gcc` to install the GCC
    3. Run `pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-cmake` to install CMake
    4. Create the build directory: `mkdir build`
    5. Generate the Makefile: `cmake -B build`
    6. Compile the game: `cmake --build build -j(number of threads)`

## To build a simple mod
- Mod building instructions:
    1. Create a `.cpp` file in `mods` folder
    2. Include `mod_api.h` in the mod file
    3. Compile with `g++ -shared -fPIC mod.cpp -o mod.so`. In windows replace `.so` with `.dll`.
- Mods will be loaded automatically.

## Launch args

- `-w` to set the width of the window
- `-h` to set the height of the window
- `-v` to set the VSYNC, Default is 1
- `-c` to set the collision, Default is 1
- `-d` to set the debug, Default is 0
- `-disableMods` to disable mods

#### Example

`./build/Sandboxia -v 1 -d`

### For debug
There is still legacy renderer included. Use that if you get OpenGL related errors.

Debug keys:

- P to print the player position
- O to print the selector position
- T to print the current tile data at the cursor
- F to print the current FPS

## Screenshots
![Sandboxia](./assets/screenshot1.png)


## Third-party libraries used
- [ImGui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui)
- [GLFW](https://github.com/glfw/glfw)
- [GLAD](https://github.com/Dav1dde/glad)
- [stb_image](https://github.com/nothings/stb)
- [GLM](https://github.com/g-truc/glm)
- [stb_perlin](https://github.com/nothings/stb)


## License
Copyright (c) 2024-2025 Benjamin Helle

Sandboxia2D is licensed under the GPL-3.0 license.

Commit message:

Now runs on Windows with minor problems, removed obsolete makefile

README.md, after:

# Sandboxia2D
![Logo](./assets/logo.png)

## Stable branch

Sandboxia is a sandbox game written in C++ using OpenGL. It is designed to be a simple sandbox game that is easy to run on older machines. The game is still in development. Sandboxia2D comes with a simple API for mods to add new features to the game. For deeper modding, modify the source code directly. Windows support is still experimental.

## Features
- Bugs may be present
- 2D World
- OpenGL 3.0
- VSYNC
- World saving/loading
- Debug mode
- Console
- Support for mods!

# Supported platforms
- Linux: x64, aarch64
- Windows: x64, x86 (experimental)

## How to play

- W, A, S, D to move
- Left mouse button to destroy blocks
- Right mouse button to place blocks
- T to open console

## Pre-requisites
### Linux
- `mesa-common-dev` (for OpenGL)
- `cmake`
- `g++`

## Building

### Linux
- Building instructions:
    1. Run `mkdir build`  
    2. Run `cmake -B build` This will generate the Makefile
    3. Run `cmake --build build -j(number of threads)` to build the game.
- Run `./build/Sandboxia` to play the game.
### Windows
Windows support is still experimental. Currently only VS 2022 is supported. To build the game, press the green play button at the top in Visual Studio. You can select between Release and Debug.

## To build a simple mod
- Mod building instructions:
    1. Create a `.cpp` file in `mods` folder
    2. Include `mod_api.h` in the mod file
    3. Compile with `g++ -shared -fPIC mod.cpp -o mod.so`. In windows replace `.so` with `.dll`.
- Mods will be loaded automatically.

## Launch args

- `-w` to set the width of the window
- `-h` to set the height of the window
- `-v` to set the VSYNC, Default is 1
- `-c` to set the collision, Default is 1
- `-d` to set the debug, Default is 0
- `-disableMods` to disable mods

#### Example

`./build/Sandboxia -v 1 -d`

### For debug
There is still legacy renderer included. Use that if you get OpenGL related errors.

Debug keys:

- P to print the player position
- O to print the selector position
- T to print the current tile data at the cursor
- F to print the current FPS

## Screenshots
![Sandboxia](./assets/screenshot1.png)

## TODO
- [ ] Release v1.0.0 version
- [ ] Add audio
- [ ] Add more blocks
- [ ] Make better GUI
- [ ] Add settings menu
- [ ] Better documentation
- [ ] Do optimizations
- [ ] Make Windows fully functional
- [x] Implement modding API
- [x] Replace OpenGL 2.1 with 3.0 core

## Third-party libraries used
- [ImGui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui)
- [GLFW](https://github.com/glfw/glfw)
- [GLAD](https://github.com/Dav1dde/glad)
- [stb_image](https://github.com/nothings/stb)
- [GLM](https://github.com/g-truc/glm)
- [stb_perlin](https://github.com/nothings/stb)


## License
Copyright (c) 2024-2025 Benjamin Helle

Sandboxia2D is licensed under the GPL-3.0 license.
